test: use testthat + codecov (#11)
r-spatial/rgeopackage: README.Rmd

---
output: github_document
---

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

```{r, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>",
  fig.path = "man/figures/README-",
  out.width = "100%"
)
```

# rgeopackage

<!-- badges: start -->
[![CRAN status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rgeopackage)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=rgeopackage)
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Lifecycle: experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
[![Codecov test coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/r-spatial/rgeopackage/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/r-spatial/rgeopackage?branch=main)
<!-- badges: end -->

> The goal of rgeopackage is to support reading and writing metadata associated with GeoPackage (gpkg) files and assist in writing reproducible GeoPackage files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current goal of `rgeopackage` is to support reading and writing metadata associated with GeoPackage (gpkg) files and assist in writing reproducible GeoPackage files.
More generally, it aims to provide features not readily available in mainstream geospatial R packages, or perhaps uneasy to discover.
```

Reviewer: Don't hesitate to update further or improve, this is an opinionated edit of course. You should feel free to take the lead!

## Installation

> You can install the development version of rgeopackage from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install the development version of `rgeopackage` from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:
```

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")

> devtools::install_github("r-spatial/rgeopackage")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remotes::install_github("r-spatial/rgeopackage")
```

```

## Overview

### Updating file timestamps

- `preset_timestamp()`: presets the file timestamp for usage by GDAL by setting the environment variable `OGR_CURRENT_DATE`.
The timestamp is adopted by GDAL during the entire session, unless `unset_timestamp()` is called.
- `amend_timestamp()`: overwrites timestamps in the `gpkg_contents` and `gpkg_metadata_reference` tables of an existing GeoPackage file.

> By default, GDAL sets timestamps corresponding to system time, so GeoPackages change when rewriting. Both functions accept a `Date` or `POSIXct` object and use standard formatting for GeoPackage files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, GDAL sets timestamps corresponding to system time, so GeoPackages change when rewriting. Both functions accept a `Date` or `POSIXct` object and reformat to comply with the GeoPackage standard.
```

Reviewer: I try to point to the strict GPKG standard more explicitly here. Feel free to rephrase as I'm no native English speaker.

## Related R packages

> - The [sf package](https://r-spatial.github.io/sf/) allows users to set GDAL configuration options in `sf::st_write()` using the `config_options` argument ([see sf issue #1618](https://github.com/r-spatial/sf/issues/1618#issuecomment-811231056)) and in `sf::st_read()` using the `options` argument (see [sf issue 1157](https://github.com/r-spatial/sf/issues/1157)). sf also includes a set of GDAL functions (e.g. `sf::gdal_metadata()`) that are not intended to be called directly by the user but could be used to access and edit GeoPackage metadata.
> 
> - The [vapour package](https://hypertidy.github.io/vapour/index.html) provides access to the basic read functions available in GDAL including GeoPackage contents and extension tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [`sf` package](https://r-spatial.github.io/sf/) allows users to set GDAL configuration options in `sf::st_write()` using the `config_options` argument ([see sf issue #1618](https://github.com/r-spatial/sf/issues/1618#issuecomment-811231056)) and in `sf::st_read()` using the `options` argument (see [sf issue 1157](https://github.com/r-spatial/sf/issues/1157)). These options only affect the specific read or write statement and do not persist during the session. `sf` also includes a set of GDAL functions (e.g. `sf::gdal_metadata()`) that are not intended to be called directly by the user but could be used to access and edit GeoPackage metadata.

- The [`vapour` package](https://hypertidy.github.io/vapour/index.html) provides access to the basic read functions available in GDAL including GeoPackage contents and extension tables.
```
